Add v1.2.0 release notes (#5006)
grafana/k6: release notes/v1.2.0.md

- [#4921](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4921) GCK6 authentication is no longer required for using binary provisioning. This also makes binary provisioning available for `k6 run` command (local execution).
- [#4922](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4922) Supports running tests using community extensions.

Previously to this release, only official extensions were supported. Since [#4922](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4922) it is possible to opt-in for using any extension listed in the [extensions registry](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/extensions/explore/) with the `K6_ENABLE_COMMUNITY_EXTENSIONS` environment variable.

```
K6_BINARY_PROVISIONING=true K6_ENABLE_COMMUNITY_EXTENSIONS=true k6 run script.js
```

Note: Community extensions are supported only for local executions (`k6 run` or `k6 cloud run --local-execution`). Tests executed in GCK6 still are limited to use the official extensions.

### Handling of NaN and Infinity float values in gRPC [#4631](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4631)

> Previous to this change sending an argument that had float values of NaN or Infinity would've sent them as `null`. This now changed to be send as their string representation which is aligned with other gRPC APIs.

Author: ```suggestion
Previously, float values of `NaN` or `Infinity` were marshalled as `null`. This has now changed to use their string representation, aligning with other gRPC APIs.
```

- [#4917](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4917) Add the ability to specify the url to wait for in waitForNavigation.
- [#4918](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4918) Surface navigation errors from navigation events in the browser module.
- [#4919](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4919) `page.url()` now doesn't make a call to the browser but instead uses a cached version. Making it a lot faster and aligned with playwright.
- [#4932](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4932) Making it more clear that the requests were aborted in the browser module.
- [#4944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4944) Add Prometheus metrics endpoint. Thank you @gouthamve.

## Bug fixes

- [#4850](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4850) Fix incorrect conversion between integer types in the browser module
- [#4973](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4973) Fix panic when context is requested before creating a page in the browser module.
- [#4975](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4975) Fix potential race conditions in the browser module.

## Maintenance and internal improvements

- [#4666](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4666) lower log level on some cloud output logs that were too noisy.

> - [#4879](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4879), [#4945](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4945) Updates of software used by the internal k6packager that packages k6.
> - [#4886](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4886) Do not run winsign in public forks so it isn't failing or wasting CI time.
> - [#4892](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4892), [#4901](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4901), [#4909](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4909), [#4927](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4927), [#4928](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4928), [#4929](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4929), [#4939](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4939), [#4954](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4954), [#4965](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4965), [#4977](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4977), [#5000](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5000), [#5001](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5001) Dependencies updates
> - [#4925](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4925) Configure dependabot to update all otel dependencies in one PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#4879](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4879), [#4945](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4945) Updates of software used by the internal k6packager that packages k6.
- [#4886](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4886) Prevents running Winsign for public forks to avoid failing and wasting CI time.
- [#4892](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4892), [#4901](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4901), [#4909](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4909), [#4927](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4927), [#4928](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4928), [#4929](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4929), [#4939](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4939), [#4954](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4954), [#4965](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4965), [#4977](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4977), [#5000](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5000), [#5001](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5001) Updates dependencies
- [#4925](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4925) Configures Dependabot to update all Otel dependencies.
```

> - [#4914](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4914), [#4967](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4967), [#4974](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4974), [#4990](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4990), [#4991](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4991) PRs trying to get the CI tests to be more stable.
> - [#4923](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4923) Mention k6 studio in the readme for more visibility.
> - [#4931](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4931) Lower the debug log on internal implementation detail error.
> - [#4943](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4943), [#4946](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4946), [#4948](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4948) Fix the CI not checking generated files and pinning versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [#4914](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4914), [#4967](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4967), [#4974](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4974), [#4990](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4990), [#4991](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4991) A set of changes to make CI tests more stable.
- [#4923](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4923) Mentions k6 studio in the readme for more visibility.
- [#4931](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4931) Lowers the debug log on internal implementation detail error.
- [#4943](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4943), [#4946](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4946), [#4948](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4948) Fixes the CI not checking generated files and pinning versions.
```

' [#4921](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4921), [#5013](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5013) Removes the requirement for GCK6 authentication for using the automatic extension resolution, and enables the feature for local execution (i.e., the `k6 run` command).
- [#4922](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4922) Supports running tests using community extensions.
- [#5039](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5039) Disable automatic resolution when start custom binaries, including for old versions of k6.

Previously, k6 only supported official extensions. As of the PR [#4922](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4922), it's now possible to use any extension listed in the [extensions registry](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/extensions/explore/) by setting the `K6_ENABLE_COMMUNITY_EXTENSIONS` environment variable.

```
K6_ENABLE_COMMUNITY_EXTENSIONS=true k6 run script.js
```

Note: Community extensions are supported only for local executions (`k6 run` or `k6 cloud run --local-execution`). Tests executed in GCK6 still are limited to use the official extensions.

> ### Handling of NaN and Infinity float values in gRPC [#4631](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4631)

Reviewer 2: Do we need a ## New features section just above this? It feels like the breaking changes are only to do with the extension support.

const locator = page.locator('//img[@alt="World Map"]');
```

Now, you can simplify this by using `getByAltText()`:
```javascript
const locator = page.getByAltText('World Map');

// Find an image with alt text that starts with 'World'
const locator = page.getByAltText(/^World/);
```

### Add `page.getByLabel` [#4890](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4890)

The browser module now includes `page.getByLabel()`, which provides a convenient way to locate form elements and other interactive components by their associated label text. This method works with both explicit `<label>` elements and elements that have an `aria-label` attribute, making it particularly useful for finding form inputs, buttons, and other interactive elements.

Previously, you would need to use XPath selectors to find elements by their label text, since CSS selectors cannot easily handle the relationship between labels and form elements:

```javascript
// Using XPath to find input by label text  
const locator = page.locator('//label[text()="Password"]');

// Or using aria-label with CSS
const locator = page.locator('[aria-label="Username"]');
```

Now, you can simplify this with `getByLabel()`:

```javascript

> // Works with both <label> elements and aria-label attributes
> const passwordInput = page.getByLabel('Password');
> // Works with regex too
> const usernameInput = page.getByLabel(/^Username$/);

Reviewer 2: Adding a newline to be consistent with the other examples.

```suggestion
// Works with both <label> elements and aria-label attributes
const passwordInput = page.getByLabel('Password');

// Works with regex too
const usernameInput = page.getByLabel(/^Username$/);
```

```

### Add `page.getByPlaceholder` [#4904](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4904)

The browser module now includes `page.getByPlaceholder()`, which provides a convenient way to locate form elements by their placeholder text. This is particularly useful for finding input fields, textareas, and other form controls that use placeholder text to guide user input.

Previously, you would need to use CSS or XPath selectors to find elements by their placeholder attribute:

```javascript
// Using CSS selector
const locator = page.locator('input[placeholder="Enter your name"]');

// Using XPath selector  
const locator = page.locator('//input[@placeholder="Enter your name"]');
```

Now, you can simplify this with `getByPlaceholder()`:

```javascript

> const nameInput = page.getByPlaceholder('Enter your name');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const nameInput = page.getByPlaceholder('Enter your name');

// Works with regex too
const emailInput = page.getByPlaceholder(/^Email/);
```

> const nameInput = page.getByPlaceholder('Enter your name');
> // Works with regex too
> const emailInput = page.getByPlaceholder(/^Email/);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const nameInput = page.getByPlaceholder('Enter your name');

// Works with regex too
const emailInput = page.getByPlaceholder(/^Email/);
```

- [#4918](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4918) Surface navigation errors from navigation events in the browser module.
- [#4919](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4919) `page.url()` now doesn't make a call to the browser but instead uses a cached version. Making it a lot faster and aligned with playwright.
- [#4932](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4932) Making it more clear that the requests were aborted in the browser module.
- [#4944](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4944) Add Prometheus metrics endpoint. Thank you @gouthamve.
- [#5040](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5040) Use new `expect()` syntax in script templates.
- [#4976](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4976) Align metrics in end of test summary with using less dots and less horizontal space.

## Bug fixes

- [#4850](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4850) Fixes incorrect conversions between integer types in the browser module.
- [#4973](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4973) Fixes panic when `BrowserContext` is requested before creating a `Page` in the browser module.
- [#4975](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4975) Fixes potential race conditions in the browser module.

> - [#5015](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5015) Fixes waitForNavigation now blocking the iteration from ending if page.close is not called.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [#5015](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5015) Fixes `waitForNavigation` now blocking the iteration from ending if `page.close` is not called.
```

k6 v1.2.0 is here 🎉! This release includes:

- Automatic extension resolution (previously Binary Provisioning) enabled for everyone
- gRPC gets better handling of `NaN` and `Infinity` float values and easier health check
- Browser module gets `page.route`, all the `page.getBy*` APIs, `locator.all()`, and `page.waitForURL`

## Breaking changes

As per our [stability guarantees](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/reference/versioning-and-stability-guarantees/),
breaking changes across minor releases are allowed only for experimental features.

### Breaking changes for experimental modules

- The experimental Open Telemetry and Prometheus outputs now default to TLSv1.3. This should've been the default to begin with. It is not expected that anyone should be affected, apart from making it more secure for the metrics output to send messages.

## New features

### Automatic extension resolution

> k6 extensions allow you to add custom functionality to your performance tests, such as connecting to databases, message queues, or specialized networking protocols. Previously, using extensions [required manual building](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/extensions/build-k6-binary-using-go) of a custom k6 binary with the extensions compiled in. This new version introduces the _Automatic Extension Resolution_ functionality, previously named Binary Provisioning, which is enabled by default and automatically detects when your script imports extensions and handles the complexity of provisioning the right k6 binary for you.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
k6 extensions allow you to add custom functionality to your tests, such as connecting to databases, message queues, or specialized networking protocols. Previously, using extensions [required manual building](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/extensions/build-k6-binary-using-go) of a custom k6 binary with the extensions compiled in. This new version introduces the _Automatic Extension Resolution_ functionality, previously named Binary Provisioning, which is enabled by default and automatically detects when your script imports extensions and handles the complexity of provisioning the right k6 binary for you.
```

k6 v1.2.0 is here 🎉! This release includes:

- (_optional_) `<highlight of breaking changes>`

> - `<Summary of new features>` (_one or multiple bullets_)

Author: ```suggestion
- Automatic extension resolution(previously Binary Provisioning) enabled for everyone
- gRPC gets better handling of `NaN` and `Infinity` float values and easier health check.
- browser modules `page.route` and many  `page.getBy*` APIs as well as `locator.all()` and `waitForURL`
- a number of bugfixes and other small improvements

> - (_optional_) `<highlight of breaking changes>`
> - `<Summary of new features>` (_one or multiple bullets_)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Automatic extension resolution(previously Binary Provisioning) enabled for everyone
- gRPC gets better handling of `NaN` and `Infinity` float values and easier health check.
- browser module gets `page.route`, all the `page.getBy*` APIs, `locator.all()`, and `page.waitForURL`
- a number of bugfixes and other small improvements
```

> ## Breaking changes

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/grafana/k6/releases/tag/v1.1.0 I would like to replicate the same section as we did the last time.

> - The experimental Open Telemetry and Prometheus outputs are now enforcing TLSv1.3. This should've been the default to begin with. It is not expected that anyone should be affected, apart from making it more secure for the metrics output to send messages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The experimental Open Telemetry and Prometheus outputs now default to TLSv1.3. This should've been the default to begin with. It is not expected that anyone should be affected, apart from making it more secure for the metrics output to send messages.
```
As someone not involved in this change, enforcing it generates doubts for me. What does it mean? Is it just a default value, and can I configure it?

## New features

_optional intro here_

> ### Binary Provisioning

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Extensions support
```
We need to rework this section a bit to remove the Binary Provisioning concept. I'm going to address it directly as soon as possible.

We have made multiple enhancements to the binary provisioning feature:

- [#4811](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4811) Removes limitations for processing test scripts from stdin or using file extensions other than `.js` or `.tar`.
- [#4812](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4812) Considers built-in extensions before attempting binary provisioning. When running a test using a custom `k6` binary, the binary provisioning checks if the binary includes all required extensions.
' [#4921](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4921) Removes the requirement for GCK6 authentication for binary provisioning, and enables the binary provisioning feature for local execution (i.e., the `k6 run` command).
- [#4922](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4922) Supports running tests using community extensions.

Previously, k6 only supported official extensions. As of the PR [#4922](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4922), it's now possible to use any extension listed in the [extensions registry](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/extensions/explore/) by setting the `K6_ENABLE_COMMUNITY_EXTENSIONS` environment variable.

```

> K6_BINARY_PROVISIONING=true K6_ENABLE_COMMUNITY_EXTENSIONS=true k6 run script.js

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
K6_ENABLE_COMMUNITY_EXTENSIONS=true k6 run script.js
```
If we merge https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5014 then we will rewrite this section to remove the flag mentions.

```

Note: Community extensions are supported only for local executions (`k6 run` or `k6 cloud run --local-execution`). Tests executed in GCK6 still are limited to use the official extensions.

### Handling of NaN and Infinity float values in gRPC [#4631](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4631)

Previous to this change sending an argument that had float values of NaN or Infinity would've sent them as `null`. This now changed to be send as their string representation which is aligned with other gRPC APIs.

There are no changes required in the scripts.

This is also the first contribution by @ariasmn. Thank you @ariasmn for taking the time to make the PR and answer all our questions.

### Health check for gRPC APIs [#4853](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4853)

> The k6 gRPC module now includes a `client.healthCheck()` method, which provides a convenient way to check the health of a gRPC service without needing to manually craft `invoke` calls. This simplifies the process of checking whether a service is up and running, which is particularly useful for readiness checks and service discovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The k6 gRPC module now has a `client.healthCheck()` method that simplifies checking the status of a gRPC service. This method eliminates the need for manual `invoke` calls, making it particularly useful for readiness checks and service discovery.
```

> Previously, you would have to write boilerplate code to perform a health check:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before, you had to write boilerplate code to perform a health check:
```

const client = new grpc.Client();
// ...
const response = client.invoke('grpc.health.v1.Health/Check', { service: 'my-service' });
```

Now, you can simplify this with the `healthCheck()` method:
```javascript
import grpc from 'k6/grpc';

const client = new grpc.Client();
client.connect('grpc.test.k6.io:443');

// Check the health of a specific service
const response = client.healthCheck('my-service');

// Check the health of the overall gRPC server
const overallResponse = client.healthCheck();

client.close();
```

The method returns a response object that includes the `status` of the service. You can use the new `grpc.HealthCheckStatus` constants to interpret the response:
- `grpc.HealthCheckStatus.SERVING`
- `grpc.HealthCheckStatus.NOT_SERVING`
- `grpc.HealthCheckStatus.UNKNOWN`

Example usage with checks:
```javascript
import { check } from 'k6';
import grpc from 'k6/grpc';

export default () => {
  const client = new grpc.Client();
  client.connect('grpc.test.k6.io:443');

  const response = client.healthCheck();

  check(response, {
    'health check status is SERVING': (r) => r.status === grpc.HealthCheckStatus.SERVING,
  });

  client.close();
};
```

> This enhancement was contributed by @tbourrely. Thank you for your contribution!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thank you, @tbourrely, for contributing this feature.
```

- [#4931](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4931) Lower the debug log on internal implementation detail error.
- [#4943](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4943), [#4946](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4946), [#4948](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4948) Fix the CI not checking generated files and pinning versions.
- [#4949](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4949) Updates to Linux Alpine 3.22 for building the k6 docker image.
- [#4950](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4950) Adds Dependabot rule to update the main Dockerfile dependencies.
- [#4958](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4958) Passes k6's file system to k6deps (for automatic extension resolution)
- [#4959](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4959) Copies Zizmor configuration in the repository to make it work for forks.
- [#4960](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4960) Reduces `waitForNavigation` complexity.
- [#4969](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4969), [#4986](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4986) Updates around semgrep scanning for security issues.
- [#4994](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4994) Configures Dependabot to update dependencies in Github actions.

> - [#4996](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4996), [#4997](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4997), [#4998](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/4998) Updates to github actions dependancies.

Author: I prefer to keep them separate - especially as it is already done. For the next release, maybe they can be together.

- [#5014](https://github.com/grafana/k6/pull/5014) Adds a test for running tests with the automatic extension resolution disabled.

## _Optional_ Roadmap

> _Discussion of future plans_

Author: @grafana/k6-core do you have any opinions. Should we have this in the future or should we drop it entirely?

### Extensions support

> We have made multiple enhancements for running scripts with extensions:

Reviewer 3: This now done
